Add `overrides` section to Atmos stack manifests. Update docs (#464)
cloudposse/atmos: website/docs/core-concepts/components/component-overrides.md

---
title: Component Overrides
sidebar_position: 9
sidebar_label: Overrides

> description: Use the 'overrides' pattern to modify component(s) configuration and behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use the 'overrides' pattern to modify component(s) configuration and behavior in the current scope.
```

id: overrides
---

Atmos supports the __overrides__ pattern to modify component(s) configuration and behavior using the `overrides` section in Atmos stack manifests.

You can override the following sections in the component(s) configuration:

- `vars`
- `settings`
- `env`
- `command`

> The `overrides` section can be used at the global level or at the Terraform and Helmfile levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `overrides` section can be used in the global scope or in the Terraform and Helmfile scopes.
```

## Overrides Schema

> The `overrides` section schema at the global level is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `overrides` section schema at the global scope is as follows:
```

```yaml
overrides:
  # Override the ENV variables for the components in the current stack manifest and all its imports
  env: {}
  # Override the settings for the components in the current stack manifest and all its imports
  settings: {}
  # Override the variables for the components in the current stack manifest and all its imports
  vars: {}
  # Override the command to execute for the components in the current stack manifest and all its imports
  command: "<command to execute>"
```

The `overrides` section schemas at the Terraform and Helmfile levels are as follows:

```yaml
terraform:
  overrides:
    env: {}
    settings: {}
    vars: {}
    command: "<command to execute>"

helmfile:
  overrides:
    env: {}
    settings: {}
    vars: {}
    command: "<command to execute>"
```

> You can include the `overrides`, `terraform.overrides` and `helmfile.overrides` sections in any Atmos stack manifest at any level of inheritance
> to override the configuration of all the Atmos components defined inline in the manifest and all its imports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can include the `overrides`, `terraform.overrides` and `helmfile.overrides` sections in any Atmos stack manifest at any level of inheritance. The scope of the `override` configuration is limited to all of the Atmos components defined within the manifest and all its imports up until that point.
```

> 

Reviewer: This explanation is incomplete without mentioning the word "scope" somewhere.

<br/>

:::tip
Refer to [Atmos Component Inheritance](/core-concepts/components/inheritance) for more information on all types of component inheritance
supported by Atmos
:::

> ## Overrides for Teams

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use-case: Overrides for Teams
```

The __overrides__ pattern is used to override the components only in a particular Atmos stack manifest and all the imported
manifests. This is different from the other configuration sections (e.g. `vars`, `settings`, `env`). If we define a `vars`, `settings` or `env`
section at the global, Terraform or Helmfile levels, all the components in the top-level stack will get the updated configurations. On
the other hand, if we define an `overrides` section in a stack manifest, only the components directly defined in the manifest and its imports will get
the overridden values, not all the components in the top-level Atmos stack.

> This is especially useful when you have Atmos stack manifests split per Teams, each Team manages a set of components, and you need to define a common

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is especially useful when you have Atmos stack manifests split per Teams; each Team manages a set of components, and you need to define a common
```

configuration (or override the existing one) for the components that only a particular Team manages.

For example, we have two Teams: `devops` and `testing`.

The `devops` Team manifest is defined in `stacks/teams/devops.yaml` and the Team manages the following components:

```yaml title="stacks/teams/devops.yaml"
# The `devops` Team manages the following components:
import:

>   - catalog/terraform/top-level-component1

Reviewer: What's the significance of referring to a component as "top-level"?

  - teams/testing
```

Suppose that we want to change some variables in the `vars` and `env` sections and some config in the `settings` section for all the components
that the `testing` Team manges, but we don't want to affect any components that the `devops` Team manages.

If we added a global or Terraform level `vars`, `env` or `settings` sections to the top-level manifest `stacks/orgs/cp/tenant1/dev/us-west-2.yaml`
or to the Team manifest `stacks/teams/testing.yaml`, then all the components in the `tenant1/dev/us-west-2` top-level stack would be modified,
including those managed by the `devops` Team.

To solve this, we could individually modify the `vars`, `env` and `settings` sections in all the components managed by the `testing` Team,
but the entire configuration would not be DRY and reusable. That's where the __overrides__ pattern comes into play. To make the configuration DRY and
configured only in one place, use the `overrides` section.

For example, we want to override some values in the `env`, `vars` and `setings` sections for all the components managed by the `testing` Team:

```yaml title="stacks/teams/testing.yaml"

> # The `testing` Team manages the following components:

Reviewer: stacks?
```suggestion
# The `testing` Team manages the following components:
```
